README.md, before:

# Synopsys
Project for running an example Haura project both fully locally and in a hybrid mode with the Hasura Cloud Console with all services running on your local workstation.

# running the local project
- for the first time you run the project, or if you change anything (database or Hasura metadata) please run the `.\build.ps1` command. If you just want to start the project run the `.\start.ps1`, if you want to stop all the containers, but keep the volumes intact run the `.\stop.ps1`. To wipe everything out and start from scratch, run the `.\scorched-earth.ps1` command, if you want to re-run it all after doing that, you'll need to run the `.\build.ps1` command again. If you want to also use Hasura 2.0, run the `.\hasura20\load-metadata.ps1` command after running `.\build.ps1` from a seperate console.
- you have two options to view your GraphiQL UI
 - [Local Host](http://localhost:3280/) - run 100% from your local host, you will be able to explore, write, and run GraphQL queries
 - [Using the Hasura "Local" Web Console](https://console.hasura.io/local/graphql) - this will launch you into the Hasura website and give you the same functionality as the "Local Host" with some additional functionality, you will need to Authenticate to use this feature, please use a GMAIL account to authenticate. If you want to edit Hasura Metadata in a UI verusus using the YAML only approach (add new permissions, database objects, connections, etc.) I have included a [Hasura 2.0](http://localhost:8010) engine to do this editing in a graphical format. There are instructions in this document further down on how to take the metadata generated and convert that over to Hasura DDN compliant YAML.
 - To access Elasticsearch use the locally hosted click on the [Kibana](http://localhost:5601) link.
 - To access a SQL Editor for Postgres, you can click on the [PG Admin](http://localhost:8889/browser/) link.

# using Hasura 2.0 to develop for Hasura DDN
While Hasura 2.0 has a robust UI for development (adding connectors, database objects, authorization, actions, remote schemas, etc.); Hasura DDN **ONLY** has an option for using YAML files to do the same type of work. Due to that, this project loads both Hasura 2.0 AND Hasura DDN and allows you to develop in 2.0 for DDN by exporting the 2.0 YAML files and converting them to DDN compliant YAML files. The following scripts are used to make this happened leveraging the Hasura 2.0 CLI:
- `.\hasura20\load-metadata.ps1` - script will load 2.0 metadata contained in the `./hasura20/metadata` directory into the Hasura 2.0 instance running locally at http://localhost:8080, if you are running the project for the first time and want to load the Hasura 2.0 instance with metadata, run this command ***AFTER*** running `.\build.ps1`
- `.\hasura20\export-metadata.ps1` - script exports the current 2.0 metadata into a YAML files structure found under ./hasura20/metadata
- `.\hasura20\convert20-to-ddn.ps1` - script will take the 2.0 metadata and convert it to Hasura DDN metadata where the feature parity is a one-to-one match; ***THIS IS A Work-in-progress currently***

# Training and Informational Links
- [Local Development Examples with different DBs](https://github.com/hasura/ddn-examples/blob/main/README.md)
- [DDN CLI Installation](https://hasura.io/docs/3.0/reference/cli/installation/) - **REQUIRED** for Hasura Development going forward.
- [Hasura DDN VS Code Plugin](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=HasuraHQ.hasura)

# Video Links
- [Setup Hasura DDN in under 1 minute speed run](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsO6TzwFb30)
- [Hasura DDN Developer Experience (DX)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PKt1WMPjq5w)
- [Local Development plus API Refinement](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WuyOhGThm8c)
- [Create Hasura generated REST APIs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Iuxhjo7Ko9c)
= [GraphQL Federation (v2 Remote Schemas) as a connector in DDN](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LJBTBIOB44U)

Commit message:

readme updates and stub for ddn to 2.0 conversion script

README.md, after:

# Synopsys
Project for running an example Haura project both fully locally and in a hybrid mode with the Hasura Cloud Console with all services running on your local workstation.

# running the local project
- for the first time you run the project, or if you change anything (database or Hasura metadata) please run the `.\build.ps1` command. If you just want to start the project run the `.\start.ps1`, if you want to stop all the containers, but keep the volumes intact run the `.\stop.ps1`. To wipe everything out and start from scratch, run the `.\scorched-earth.ps1` command, if you want to re-run it all after doing that, you'll need to run the `.\build.ps1` command again. If you want to also use Hasura 2.0, run the `.\hasura20\load-metadata.ps1` command after running `.\build.ps1` from a seperate console.
- you have two options to view your GraphiQL UI
  - [Local Host](http://localhost:3280/) - run 100% from your local host, you will be able to explore, write, and run GraphQL queries
  - [Using the Hasura "Local" Web Console](https://console.hasura.io/local/graphql) - this will launch you into the Hasura website and give you the same functionality as the "Local Host" with some additional functionality, you will need to Authenticate to use this feature, please use a GMAIL account to authenticate. If you want to edit Hasura Metadata in a UI verusus using the YAML only approach (add new permissions, database objects, connections, etc.) I have included a [Hasura 2.0](http://localhost:8010) engine to do this editing in a graphical format. There are instructions in this document further down on how to take the metadata generated and convert that over to Hasura DDN compliant YAML.
 - To access Elasticsearch use the locally hosted click on the [Kibana](http://localhost:5601) link.
 - To access a SQL Editor for Postgres, you can click on the [PG Admin](http://localhost:8889/browser/) link.

# using Hasura 2.0 to develop for Hasura DDN
While Hasura 2.0 has a robust UI for development (adding connectors, database objects, authorization, actions, remote schemas, etc.); Hasura DDN **ONLY** has an option for using YAML files to do the same type of work. Due to that, this project loads both Hasura 2.0 AND Hasura DDN and allows you to develop in 2.0 for DDN by exporting the 2.0 YAML files and converting them to DDN compliant YAML files. The following scripts are used to make this happened leveraging the Hasura 2.0 CLI:
- `.\hasura20\load-metadata.ps1` - script will load 2.0 metadata contained in the `./hasura20/metadata` directory into the Hasura 2.0 instance running locally at http://localhost:8080, if you are running the project for the first time and want to load the Hasura 2.0 instance with metadata, run this command ***AFTER*** running `.\build.ps1`
- `.\hasura20\export-metadata.ps1` - script exports the current 2.0 metadata into a YAML files structure found under ./hasura20/metadata
- `.\hasura20\convert20-to-ddn.ps1` - script will take the 2.0 metadata and convert it to Hasura DDN metadata where the feature parity is a one-to-one match; ***THIS IS A Work-in-progress currently***
- `.\hasura20\convertddn-to-20.ps1` - script will take the ddn metadata and convert it to Hasura 2.0 metadata where the feature parity is a one-to-one match; ***THIS IS A Work-in-progress currently***

# Training and Informational Links
- [Local Development Examples with different DBs](https://github.com/hasura/ddn-examples/blob/main/README.md)
- [DDN CLI Installation](https://hasura.io/docs/3.0/reference/cli/installation/) - **REQUIRED** for Hasura Development going forward.
- [Hasura DDN VS Code Plugin](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=HasuraHQ.hasura)

# Video Links
- [Setup Hasura DDN in under 1 minute speed run](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OsO6TzwFb30)
- [Hasura DDN Developer Experience (DX)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PKt1WMPjq5w)
- [Local Development plus API Refinement](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WuyOhGThm8c)
- [Create Hasura generated REST APIs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Iuxhjo7Ko9c)
= [GraphQL Federation (v2 Remote Schemas) as a connector in DDN](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LJBTBIOB44U)
